# Music-Detector
The basic  this website will do is it will a sound will be played and the website will try to detect which note it is.
So, giving basic overview, 
 computers obvuously cannot take raw microphone data, it digitises and samples already (usually it is 44100 samples). 
We used audioContext which acts as the brain of deteceting sound. Then we sampled it in discrete form using fftsize 2048 samples (this basically means we are analyzing 2048 samples per frame). And each sample is stored in a float32array which we have built. (which is the dataarray). Now getfloattimedomain spills the sampled data into the dataarray. Then we come to detect pitch. But before that we need to check for the noise and it should not give any random value for noise. SO we use rms=0 and then calculate the root mean square of the volume, if it stays under 0.01, then we can ignore it. If it goes above, our pitch detection starts. Then we use autocorrelation to check the samples and find for the similarities. Well actually we use YIN algorithm which finds the difference between the sample value and the shifted value of the sample, finds its cumultive mean, and stores the mismatches in yinarray [] list. This gives out the pitch. I mean, the difference between the (and its whole square) sampled value and shifted values gives the period(How it finds the period ?) IT sees that if the difference between the sample and the shifted sample is less, then this FIRST difference is considered as correct period. We find frequency using the formula no. of samples/period, and we mostly get fairly accurate frequency. 
Now, we have taken a reference value A4 (440hz)(ie, A note of 4th octave which has frequency 440hz) Then using the formula n = 12 * Math.log2(frequency / A4); then we round it of to the whole value, add/subtract the number of semitones from A4 and find the final note. To further improve the pitch detecting, we use the concept of "cent" which is a very small unit of pitch difference(1 semitone = 100 cents). So we even calculate the cent of the pitches and after finding the frequency, we differ those by cent, (0 cents	perfectly in tune, +20 cents	slightly sharp, -20 cents	slightly flat)
Finally voila! We found the perfect pitch ! 

